What are the factors that influence us in building the applications based on distributed technology?
There are few factors to be taken into account to consider whether an application should be built on distributed technology or not 
1. quicker turn-around time
turn-around time: total time the job has taken to complete is called "turn-aroud time"
if we want to reduce the total time taken by a job to finish then go for distributed technology

2. higher through-put
through-put = number of jobs being completed within the given amount of time
within the given amount of time if we want more number of jobs to be completed then we need go for distributed-technology
for eg.. within 100 hours of time = we are completing 1 job, but instead of 1 job we want to complete 10 jobs within #100 hours of time, this is called more through-put this can be achieved only through distributed technology

3. high-responsive or quicker response
if we want the job to be completed within the stipulated interval of time, then go for distributed technology
for eg.. there are few cases where we want the response/output of a job to be returned within the stipulated interval of time no-matter how much amount of load is there on the system, because if the output has been received/returned out of the interval of time, the output may not be usable at all

4. high-accurate and fail-over safe 
there are few systems that requires higher amount of accuracy and fail-over safe which means incase of fault also system should mitigate or handle without disrupting the operation then we need to go for distributed technology
for eg.. if a robot is operating an patient for surgery, we need fail-over safe to ensure if there is a failure of the system, there should be a backup that takes care of continuing the procedure without affecting the operation procedure

5. high-utilization of resources
if we want to increase the utilization of a resource, then distribute the resource across multiple people using distributed technology so that effective utilization of resource is guaranteed
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
How does the applications/programs looks like when we are building them using distributed technology?
These programs are having ability of communicating over the network, so that 2 different programs can run on different computers (thus multiplying the computing capacity allocated for the job) inter-connected over the network so that they can mutual co-ordinate with each other by communicating over the network to accomplish the job/output desired

in-short: we are building network applications

































































