RMI
RMI stands for remote method invocation, RMI is an api provided by Sun Microsystems insupport of building distributed technology applications aspart of java platform

pros:
1. ease of development, it matches with traditional style of java application development
2. no packaging and no deployment
3. no maintainance or monitoring or installing the middleware servers
4. completely opensource

cons:
1. doesnt scale for building enterpise applications
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
EJB
EJB stands for enterprise java beans, it is one more api provided by sunmicrosystems in building enterprise applications based on distributed technology in java platform

There are 3 types of EJBs are there
1. Session Bean        = business components, that can be exposed over the network
2. Entity Bean         = persistence technology components, can be exposed over the network
3. Message-driven Bean = asynchronous communication between the applications across the network
The latest version of EJB is EJB 3.1 in this version the Entity Beans are removed and replaced with jpa api

The biggest feature that is introduced into the world of programming by EJB is the concept of managed object and managed container.

1. write the java code directly
2. ejb deployment descriptor
3. package the application as an EAR
4. deploy the ejb application aspart of the EJB Container

pros:
1. finally we can build enterprise distributed application using java platform
2. most of the cross-platform services are offered by the infrastructure/container/platform, so programmer has little in coding toward them and has to build only business logic, thus development of the application will be very fast

cons:
1. very complex to understand and develop the applications
2. the ejb containers or middleware is heavy weight and requires huge system resources in running the application
3. ejb objects/components are not inter-operable

The sun microsystems to overcome the dis-advantages with ejb, it has introduced one more api called "soap webservices"
	
4. SOAP WebServices






























































































