#3. Python
Python high-level scripting language that is used for programming both at server-side and client-side. Python has all the features of any typical high-level programming language and in addition it has rich of python modules/libraries that can be re-used quickly in building the application, that makes python ideal choice programming

Python is majorly being used for carrying out the administrative scripts in configuring the server-side platforms/engines. 
There are plenty of advantages in achieving the software configuration management automation through python
1. we can make use of all the high-level programming language features while programming with python
2. we can reuse the python modules and quickly create the scripts
3. richer support of logging
4. error management
5. code written in python is portable across the platforms

in addition it has its own dis-advantages:
1. need strong programming knowledge
2. difficult to achieve idempotancy
3. doesnt manages the configuration states of the machines
4. ops engineer/developer has to endup on writing complex archestration logic in executing the various tasks in achieving the automation

From all the discussions we went through we can derive basic requirements we wanted in accomplishing software configuration management automation:
The people involved in carrying the software configuration management automation are non-programmers, most administrators who has little/no exposure to any programming platforms so we need a tool/language that help us in 
	1. easily programming the automation with little programming knowledge
	2. idempotancy
	3. proper error management
	4. logging 
	5. orchestration
	6. platform independent
	7. statement management (keeping track of machines and their software configuration)
	8. scaled executions
To fulfill the above requirements in achieving the automation, the software configuration management tools are provided by various different vendors
1. ansible
2. chef
3. puppet
4. salt stack

How does these software configuration management tools works?
Any software configuration management tool comes under any of these 2 standard architectures.
1. pull-based architecture
2. push-based architecture













































































